# Ramen Reviews Nana: [RakiRaki][]

My second night of three in San Diego, I managed to beg out of some
drinks and burgers and freed myself up to go try out a place that was
really highly rated: [RakiRaki][]. They were packed by the time I got
there around 6p - they barely had enough space for one extra at the
bar, but I made it before the line ended up way out the door, happily.

RakiRaki is famous for the [ramen burgers][] - they fry? up the ramen
noodles and use them as the bun around a chicken pattie. I agonized
over the decision (burger!? so novel...or, ramen from a new
restaurant? that seems quite authentic/traditional) for a few minutes
before wimping out and going with the guarantee of traditional soup
Ramen, which is what we see pictured above.

* Pork: 9/10
* Noodles: 9/10
* Everything else (broth, seaweed, bamboo, etc): 7/10
* **Overall: 25/30**

So, the way they did their pork was different from any of the other
ramen I've ever had - they charred it (fried, I guess? or maybe with a
torch?) to the point of being crunchy around the outside. It gave the
pork an interesting texture and a flavor that was pretty singular, and
I really liked this version. They also added slices of garlic that
were roasted? until they were crunchy, seen in the bottom left of the
bowl - these were a little bitter but I really like garlic so I was
happy when they'd turn up randomly throughout the meal.

The broth and the noodles were both quite good - I liked the noodles
in particular better than Tajima. I don't remember much about the egg,
though.

Unfortunately, they added baby ginger, the pink thing in the middle,
which I'm not a fan of. Since it was baby ginger, it wasn't too strong
and I just ate them all at the beginning so it wouldn't contaminate
the broth. Next time I'll try to remember to ask them to leave it off.

RakiRaki is probably one of my all time favorites, and I really hope I
can bring Karen there some day so we can try the Ramen burgers too!

[RakiRaki]: http://www.rakirakiramen.com/
[ramen burgers]: http://aht.seriouseats.com/archives/2013/09/rakiraki-ramen-burger-review-san-diego-california.html
