# Ramen Reviews Returns: [Tajima][1]

Just a few days ago [Dexter][] requested that I write some more
reviews, and luckily I recently had the opportunity to travel to San
Diego. It just so happened that the area around my hotel had tons of
ramen places around - certainly not by design, as someone else chose
the hotel, but defintiely appreciated! Since I didn't have a car, it
was super lucky that I could walk to multiple 4+ star rated places just
over a mile from the hotel.

My first night there, I went to [Tajima][1], which was a pretty trendy
sort of place - low light, loud (annoying) pop music - I probably
wouldn't have pegged it as a quality ramen place.

* Pork: 6/10
* Noodles: 7/10
* Other: 6/10
* Cheater mode: yummy garlic edamame +1
* **Overall: 20/30**

Hmm, the pork here was average to mediocre - not really worth writing
about. The broth was really good, and even though the egg was a lot
closer to hard boiled than soft boiled, it was still tasty. Not really
sure if it's possible to mess up a marinated egg, actually... On the
other hand, the ramen noodles were a bit thinner than I prefer. That's
probably my fault, as I believe they allowed you to opt for thick or
thin noodles as a choice. I also picked up an appetizer of garlic
edamame, which was surprisingly delicious.

Overall, it was a solid bowl of ramen and I was quite happy that it
was my first stop in San Diego after the airport. It definitely hit
the spot after airport/airplane food and the six hour flight. Which,
oh, they showed _The Heat_ on the flight with Sandra Bullock and
Melissa McCarthy; it was hilarious :D

[Dexter]: http://dexchan.tumblr.com/
[1]: http://tajimasandiego.com/Tajima.html
