# Ramen Reviews Hachi: [Hanami II][]

Hmm, so one of the unfortunate parts about New Haven is that we
haven't found a reliable noodle store nearby. I was in the mood to eat
out, so I found a place in the next town over called [Hanami II][].

Oddly, Karen and I were the only customers the entire night... and
Karen said they were playing Chinese music, and speaking Chinese to
each other, haha. Their menu looked impressive, and we choose the Pork
Ramen noodles along with a new sushi roll: _Green Diamond Roll_,
chosen because it had green tea mayo as one of the ingredients. The
sushi was good, although neither of us were really into the raw
Japanese scallops. Karen reminds me that they charged $1.75 for hot
tea, which is upsetting - we should really start asking up front
instead of being disappointed afterwards, I guess.

* Pork: 1/10
* Noodles: 7/10
* Everything else (broth, seaweed, bamboo, etc): 0/10
* **Overall: 8/30**

Hmm, unfortunately, the ramen was a total let down. The broth was
basically chicken broth, and the pork ended up the way I usually do
pork - tough and chewy the point of being squeaky. I mess it up by
overcooking the meat or leaving it in the steaming broth for too long,
maybe that's what they did. There were hardly any other furnishings
(ugh, no egg! (or bamboo!)) other than mushroom slices! Perhaps that
would be a plus for some, but for us it was definitely a
negative. Mushrooms in ramen is another new thing for me, but I wasn't
a fan of the new thing this time around.

The only redeeming thing for me was that there were tons of noodles,
and that the noodles reminded me a lot of the ramen noodles I had as a
kid, which started me out on this whole thing :). We'll have to
continue our search for Connecticut ramen elsewhere. And, next time
back we'll stick to sushi rolls at Hanami II!

[Hanami II]: http://www.hanamiii.com/
